
1. Routed ports are typically used between switches and routers 
2. Switched Virual Interfaces , Switch Port interfaces are typically used in campus environment where you need to tag multiple
   VLANs across an interface. 
3. A routed port doesn't have a concept of VLANs there are no VLANs so you don't run spanning tree and you don't run DTP. 
4. To enable Inter-VLAN Routing or Layer 3 Functionality we need to have the "ip routing" command enabled on switch. 
5. Router Will Block a Broadcast Domain 
6. Mordern Router by default do not forward boradcat frames 
7. Switches can also provide broadcast domain segmentation using virtual LANs (VLANs). 
8. A router not only breaks collision domains but also break broadcast domains, means it is both collision as well as broadcast domain separator.
9. Native VLAN : If a packet is received on a dot1q link, that does not have VLAN tagged it is assumed that it belongs to native
		 VLAN. 
		 Default Native Vlan is VLAN1
10 NATIVE VLAN Best Practices : 
	- Best Practise is to configure the NATIVE VLAN ID to VLAN666 and to ensure that this VLAN is not in use anywhere in 
	  the network 
	- No ports should be assign to native VLAN 
	- An Attacker who attempts to use the VLAN Hopping attack will end up in a dead VLAN that has no host to leaverage 
11 Configuration of Native VLAN : 
	Switch(config)# vlan 999 
	Swicth(config)# interface gig0/0
	Switch(config-if)# switchport mode trunk 
	Switch(config-if)# switchport trunk native vlan 999 

12. For Cisco Switches the Native VLAN ID must match on both end of the trunk 
13. Confirmation Command ; 
	1. show interface trunk
	2. show interface gig0/0 switchport 

14. Broadcast Domain and Collision Domain : 
	
1. Broadcast Domain : 	
	- Set of all the devices that receive broadcast frames originating from any device within a set 
2. Collision Domain : 
	- A Collision Domain is a network segment with two or more devices sharing the same bandwidth. (Where there is a chance of collision)
	- In HUB there is only one collision Domain Because two device cannot sent at a same time. 
	- In SWITCH each and every port has a seperate collision Domain. 
		- PORT = Collision Domain 
NOTE : HUB has 1 Collision Domain and 1 Broadcast Domain 

15. Proxy ARP : This will allow a device to proxy the default gateways of other device. 
16. You can have a port configuration in a VLAN and not have that VLAN in the VLAN Database ,if that is true the port is essentially in a error disable state, It would not work. 
17. VTP removes the VLAN from the database but doesn't take the port out of the VLAN 
18. CDP allows you to check layer 2 connectivity. 
19. DTP will be disable automatically if we make that port access 
20. To enable cdp run : "cdp run" in global config mode. 
21. CDP is cisco proriatory and LLDP is an IEEE standard, it is not enable by default on cisco devices. 
22. To Enable LLDP run : "lldp run" in global config mode. 
23. CDP send update in every 60 seconds and lldp sends update in every 30 seconds. 
24. Spanning tree forward blocking ports transmit and receive management packets (network management protocols) Like CDP, LLDP, DTP. 
25. When using PVST+ / RPVST+ the bridge (switch Priority) = priority + VLAN number   
26. spanning-tree vlan 20,100 priority 0 : this command is used to divide the traffic between different up-links 
27. EtherChannel = Port Aggregation = Port Channel 
28. when you add physical interfaces to port channel you need to do the configuration on the port-channel rather than on 
    physical interface. The configuration that you do on the logical port channel should filter down to the physical interface
29. The config you apply on the logical port channel should be copied and applied on the physical interfaces by switch. 
30 Configuration of PORT CHANNEL : 

	1. Create a EtherChannel(Port Channel) : 
		Switch(config)# interface range gig1/0/23 - 24
		Switch(config-if-range)# channel-group 1 mode active 
	2. Configure interface settings on the port channel, these setting are inherited by the interfaces 
		Switch(config)# interface port-channel 1
		Switch(config-if)# switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q 
		Switch(config-f)# switchport mode trunk 
31. If i do the configuration on the physical interface it's is not applied to the port-channel but configuration applied to port channel is pushed down to the physical interface. 
32.  1.  spanning-tree vlan 1 root primary 
     2.  spanning-tree vlan 1 priority 0 
33. 	


	
	   
